a year ago we took a look at the prusa
markv today we're looking at the prusa
Mark 4S which is a big upgrade and for
the same price or if you already have a
markv only a $100 upgrade kit so we're
going to take a closer look at some of
the upgrades that theyve put into it
we gummy bears as always we use the
crues around the office quite a bit
they're one of the workhorses we have
around here
and I'm looking forward to adding these
ones to our Arsenal and upgrading the
ones we have to
this as always another USB stick
anything else hiding yes many things
hiding more boxes in this box we have
the accessory
kit which has a bunch of tools a
filament guide spool holder and some
lube and a couple of other odds and ends
and a spool of filament Galaxy black
always pretty most of the parts of this
are similar to The markv but there are
two big improvements one is the part
cooling shroud and fan system which is
going to allow for faster Printing and
way better overhangs and something we
can't see right now is a new hot end to
allow for way higher flow rates some of
the other quality of life upgrades are
the screen cover which is now injection
molded and some of the more mechanically
robust parts are printed out of a
polycarbonate carbon fiber infused
filament the unit we got was fully
assembled so just take it out of the box
put it down plug it in and go they say
it would take you about 10 minutes to
get from out of box to your first print
let's flick it on one of the other
things they've released is a mobile app
and an update to their desktop app this
allows you to browse through your
printers start and stop prints and you
can set up print notifications for
either failures or successes and other
General printer status information setup
pretty straightforward you just tap the
NFC with your app
going and scan a QR code to get it set
up as with all PR printers you don't
need to have it set up to the Wi-Fi and
you can print completely offline if you
want to let's finish up the self tests
and calibrations it's going to go
through and just make sure that all the
systems are behaving the way it expects
to make sure that it arrived in fully
functioning
order hi
there o nice and quiet
one of the things I appreciate with the
prusa systems is they go through the
self testing calibration right at the
start and then after that you pretty
much never have to recalibrate them
unlike some of the other systems which
run it before every single print which
can take a lot of extra time when you're
running a lot of prints it's all the
main axis
done and heat testing this might take a
minute that's probably a good time to
cut cut cut cut since we didn't build
this printer ourselves we don't have to
deal with the gearbox test but from what
I've seen it's pretty
straightforward all right now we're
going to take out the filament and make
sure the filament sensor is working
correctly insert filament make
sure doing more
calibrating and
remove
sweet happy printing now that the
printer is all set up and ready to go
let's give you a word from our sponsor
delete me protecting yours and your
family's online privacy is a team effort
and with delete me's new family plans
everyone in your household is covered
each family member receives personalized
data cleanup services to keep their
private information secure and from kids
to adults they ensure everyone is
protected from online threats and scams
so don't wait give your family the peace
of mind they need by heading to the link
in the video description to learn more
while this is heating up one of the
other changes they made was to put some
more bearing style engineering materials
on the inside of the gearbox housing
just to give smoother running in the
long term generally speaking prusa
doesn't push printed as fast as you
possibly can but one of the things they
did include on this is an 8-minute Beni
which I'm very curious to see how that
runs that was really
fast and it looks really good especially
given how quickly it printed obviously
not a regulation Beni it's a little
Hollow but still for how quickly that
printed this looks
spectacular one of the big things that
they claiming is to be able to handle
75° overhangs without any support
cleanly I've done a couple of test
prints on some of the other printers we
have in house we'll start a print here
and see how it turns
out overall I'm really excited for the
upgrades that this brings and I'm
probably going to reach out to them
today to get a bunch of kits to upgrade
all of our printers internally cu the
speed Improvement and the quality
improvement looks substantial and all of
these upgrades coming at the same price
point as the original printer at $800
for the build your own kit and ,100 for
the
pre-built it's pretty compelling if you
want to see us talk about other printers
in the future make sure to like And
subscribe
bye-bye bye